Dubai is the most populous city in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the capital of the Emirate of Dubai. Which is the most populous of the country's seven emirates doo-BY. Arabic romanized: Dubayy. IPA Gulf Arabic pronunciation The city, which began as a modest fishing community in the 18th century. Expanded quickly in the early 21st century with a concentration on tourism and luxury. And now has the second-most five-star hotels per capita in the world as well as the Burj Khalifa. The world's tallest building, which stands at 828 metres (2,717 feet) in height

It is also a significant global transportation centre for both people and goods. Located in the eastern Arabian Peninsula on the Persian Gulf coast Revenue from oil helped to speed up the

burj khalifa
dubai
dubai skyline
palm island top view dubai
dubai highway
Etymology
The word "Dubai"'s origin has been the subject of various theories. According to one interpretation. The word in Ba was formerly the souq According to an Arabic proverb. "Daba Dubai" (Arabic: ) means "They came with a lot of money. The word Dubai may have originated from the verb daba (Arabic: ). Which is a past tense derivative of the verb yadub (Arabic: ). Which means "to creep" and refers to the gradual movement of Dubai Creek inland. Claims Fedel Handhal, a specialist on the history and culture of the United Arab Emirates. Because there were so many locusts in the area before settlement.

History
The rich and varied history of human habitation in the region presently occupied by the United Arab. Emirates suggests widespread trade connections between Mesopotamian and Indus Valley civilizations. As well as civilizations as far away as the Levant Archaeological discoveries in the emirate of Dubai. Especially at Al-Ashoosh. Al Sufouh, and the notably rich hoard from Saruq Al Hadid demonstrate settlement throughout the Ubaid and Hafit eras. The Umm Al Nar and Wadi Suq periods, and the three Iron Ages in the United Arab Emirates. The region, called Magan by the Sumerians, was a supplier of metal items, particularly copper and bronze

Around 5,000 years ago, the region was covered with sand as the coast moved inland, forming a component of

Establishment of modern Dubai
According to some estimates, Dubai was first settled as a fishing community in the early 18th century by 1822. It was a town with 700–800 Bani Yas tribe members and was governed by Sheikh Tahnun bin. Shakhbut of Abu Dhabi A British naval surveyor reported in 1822. A reedy creek was reached via the main walk leading out of the community. While a second path branched out into the desert and eventually joined caravan routes.

Pre-oil Dubai
fort in dubai
old sea shore of dubai
Due to its proximity to Iran, Dubai is a significant trading hub. Dubai served as a significant stopping point for foreign traders, especially those from Iran, many of whom later relocated there. It was a significant harbour by the turn of the 20th century Back then. Dubai was made up of the town of Dubai and the close-by community of Jumeirah. Which was made up of 45 areesh (palm leaf) cottages By the 1920s. A large number of Iranians had crossed the Persian Gulf and relocated permanently to Dubai. By that time, the town's amenities had expanded, and Al Bastakiya, a contemporary neighbourhood, had been built.

Up until the 1930s, Dubai was well-known for its exports of pearls, but the 1929 Great Depression and the subsequent

Oil era
Oil was eventually discovered in the territorial waters off Dubai in 1966. After extensive exploration that followed significant discovery in the neighbouring Abu Dhabi. But in much lower quantities. "Fateh" or "good fortune" was the name of the first field. As a result, Sheikh Rashid's plans for building infrastructure were expedited. And a construction boom produced a huge influx of foreign labourers, primarily from Asia and the Middle East. The population of the city increased by approximately 300% from 1968 to 1975.

Two 500,000 gallon storage tanks, known locally as 2Kazzans2 were constructed as part of the infrastructure. For pumping and transferring oil from the Fateh field. Located offshore of the Jebel Ali neighbourhood of Dubai. They were welded together on the beach, dug out and floated to their final location.

Reaching the UAE's Act of Union
Adi Bitar in a meeting with Sheiks Rashid Al Maktoum, Mohammad Al Maktoum and Maktoum Al Maktoum in Dubai, 1968
Due to an agreement known as the "Exclusive Agreement" that was made in 1892. Dubai and the other "Trucial States" have long been under British protection. With the British government managing their defence and foreign policy as well as mediating disputes amongst the Eastern Gulf's rulers. The declaration by PM Harold Wilson that all British troops would be withdrawn from "East of Aden" on January 16. 1968 would change this. The choice was made to engage Bahrain, Qatar. And the coastal emirates in frantic discussions to fill the political void that the British withdrawal would leave behind.

Modern Dubai
Dubai grew throughout the 1970s thanks to income from trade and the oil industry. Despite an influx of refugees from the Lebanese civil war Border disputes between the emirates persisted. Even after the UAE was established. It wasn't until 1979 that a formal agreement that put an end to conflicts was obtained. In 1979, the Jebel Ali port was built as a deep-water port that could accommodate bigger ships. As a result of the port's initial failure. Sheikh Mohammed created the JAFZA (Jebel Ali Free Zone) in its vicinity in 1985. To give foreign businesses unlimited access to labour imports and exports of capital. The aviation sector and the airport in Dubai both kept expanding.

Early in 1991, the Gulf War had a detrimental financial impact.

pam island dubai
Geography
Dubai is located on the United Arab Emirates' Persian Gulf coast. The Sultanate of Oman, Sharjah, and Abu Dhabi all share boundaries with the emirate of Dubai in the southeast, northeast, and south, respectively. Oman, together with the emirates of Ajman (in the west) and Ras Al Khaimah (in the north). Encircle Hatta, a tiny exclave of the emirate, on three sides. The emirate's western coast is bordered by the Persian Gulf. Due to land reclamation from the Dubai World Tower. The city of Dubai now spans an area of 1,588 sq mi (4,110 km2). Amajor extension from its original 1,500 sq mi (3,900 km2) classification. Dubai is located at 25.2697°N 55.3095°E.

desert of dubai
Government
dubai sheikh Al Maktoum
Since 1833, the Al Maktoum family has controlled Dubai, which is a constitutional monarchy. Residents of Dubai take part in the electoral college to choose representatives for the UAE's Federal National Council. In addition to serving as vice president and prime minister of the United Arab Emirates and a member of the Supreme Council of the Union (SCU). The ruler is His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum. Dubai appoints 8 members to the Federal National Council (FNC), the top federal legislative body of the UAE, for two-term terms

Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, the then-ruler of Dubai. Formed the Dubai Municipality (DM) in 1954 for the goals of city planning, citizen services, and maintenance of neighbourhood infrastructure Since then.

Law enforcement
 Dubai Police Forc
The emirate's law enforcement is under the purview of the Dubai Police Force, which was established in the neighbourhood of Naif in 1956. Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum has direct control over the military

Several unusual vehicles are used by Dubai Police.
The only emirates in the United Arab Emirates that do not follow the federal judicial system are Dubai and Ras al Khaimah The Court of First Instance. The Court of Appeal. And the Court of Cassation make up the emirate's judicial courts. The Civil Court, which hears all civil claims, the Criminal Court, which hears claims resulting from police complaints, and the Sharia Court. Which adjudicates disputes amongst Muslims, make up the Court of First Instance. The Sharia Court does not hear cases from non-Muslim parties. The

Alcohol laws
Despite being legal, alcohol sales and usage are controlled. Adult non-Muslims are permitted to consume alcohol in places that are authorised to provide it, usually hotels, or at home if they have an alcohol licence. Alcohol is normally not allowed to be sold in locations besides hotels, clubs, and places with specific permission The legal drinking age in the Emirate of Dubai is 21, as it is in other areas of the world, and driving while intoxicated is prohibited

Human rights
Companies in Dubai have faced criticism in the past for violating workers' human rights Human Rights Watch has charged that some of the city's 250,000 foreign labourers live in "less than humane" conditions The challenging documentary Slaves in Dubai (2009) focused on the mistreatment of foreign workers Human Rights Watch's charges were deemed "misguided" by the Dubai administration, which also rejected any labour violations. In interviews, the director described how it was necessary to go undercover in order to avoid being discovered by the authorities, who impose severe fines on reporters who attempt to capture evidence of violations of human rights, such as the working conditions of construction workers.

The government had announced actions to permit construction unions by the end of March 2006.

Crime
With one of the lowest rates of violent crime worldwide Dubai was named the seventh-safest city in the world in 2019 The offences were divided into six categories by the Security Industry Regulatory Agency.[104] Theft, forcible robbery, home invasion, fraud, sexual assault and abuse, and criminal damages are some of these offences

According to Gulf News, Dubai Police said that throughout 2017, there was a 15% decrease in crime in Dubai. However, there was an 8% increase in drug trafficking cases. The commander-in-chief of the Dubai Police, Major-General Abdullah Khalifa Al Merri, praised the agency for successfully resolving 86% of criminal cases

According to the figures, murder rates decreased from 0.5 per 100,000 people in 2016 to 0.3 in 2017, while violent and aggressive crimes in the

Economy
Dubai's gross domestic product, one of the economies with the fastest growth rates in the world, is anticipated to reach over US$177 billion in 2021 after expanding by 6.1% in 2014 A significant portion of Dubai's trading infrastructure was constructed on the back of the oil industry, while fewer than 5% of the emirate's income come from oil and natural gas According to estimates, Dubai generates 50,000 to 70,000 barrels (7,900 to 11,100 m3) of oil and sizable amounts of gas from offshore fields every day The emirate contributes around 2% of the UAE's overall petrol income. The oil reserves in Dubai have considerably decreased and are predicted to run out in 20 years Trade (16%), business (15%), real estate and construction (22.6%) and financial services

Port of Jebel Ali (dubai)
Real estate and property
Property appreciated from 2004 to 2006 as a result of the government's decision to diversify the economy from one focused on commerce and oil dependence to one that is service- and tourism-oriented. However, a longer-term analysis of Dubai's real estate market revealed depreciation, with some properties losing up to 64% of their value between 2001 and November 2008 The construction of some of the world's tallest buildings and largest projects, including the Emirates Towers, the Burj Khalifa, the Palm Islands, and the most costly hotel, the Burj Al Arab, has been facilitated by large-scale real estate development initiatives The sluggish economy caused a significant decline in Dubai's real estate market in 2008 and 2009 Early in 2009, the circumstance had gotten worse with

Tourism
The Dubai Mall Aquarium
The Dubai Fountain in Burj Khalifa lake, Downtown Dubai
burj al arab dubai
The Dubai government's plan to keep the inflow of foreign currency into the emirate heavily relies on tourism. The main draw of Dubai for tourists is shopping however it also has other modern and historic attractions Based on the number of international tourists, Dubai is the fourth most visited city in the world as of 2018, and it is also the one that is expanding the fastest, at a rate of 10.7% In 2016, the city welcomed 14.9 million overnight guests, and by 2020, 20 million visitors are anticipated

The Aquarium in the Dubai Mall
The Burj Khalifa, the highest structure in the world right now, is a popular tourist destination in Dubai. Jeddah Tower in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, however, plans to be even taller.

Architecture
Dubai offers a remarkable array of structures and buildings in a wide range of architectural types. Due to a boom in construction and architectural innovation across the Arab World in general, and in Dubai in particular, top firms from New York and Chicago in addition to top Arab or international architectural and engineering design firms like Al Hashemi and Aedas can be found here Due to this boom, skyscraper building design and technology have truly reached new heights in modern Islamic - and global - architecture. More skyscrapers higher than 2 km (2,200 ft), 1 km (1,100 ft), or 4 km (820 ft) have been constructed or topped out in Dubai than in any other city. a conclusion

burj kalifa dubai
dubai skyline
Transportation
dubai metro
The Roads and Transport Authority (RTA), a department of the Dubai government established by royal decree in 2005, is in charge of managing transport in Dubai Prior to a significant investment programme, the public transport system had dependability and congestion problems. By 2020, when the city's population is expected to top 3.5 million, approximately AED 70 billion in improvements are expected to be completed According to figures from the Dubai Municipality, there were reportedly 1,021,880 automobiles in Dubai in 2009 Six percent of Dubai inhabitants used public transport in January 2010

Road
Dubai is connected to neighbouring cities and emirates by five major roads: E 11 (Sheikh Zayed Road), E 311 (Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Road), E 44 (Dubai-Hatta Highway), E 77 (Dubai-Al Habab Road), and E 66 (Oud Metha Road, Dubai-Al Ain Road, or Tahnoun Bin Mohammad Al Nahyan Road) The major neighbourhoods in the city are connected by a number of significant intra-city roadways, including D 89 (Al Maktoum Road/Airport Road), D 85 (Baniyas Road), D 75 (Sheikh Rashid Road), D 73 (Al Dhiyafa Road now known as 2 December street), D 94 (Jumeirah Road), and D 92 (Al Khaleej/Al Wasl Road). Al Maktoum Bridge, Al Garhoud Bridge, Al Shindagha Tunnel, and Business Bay Crossing link the city's east and west sides.

Air
Dubai International Airport (IATA: DXB), the Emirates hub, services the country's other emirates as well as the city of Dubai. The airport is the busiest airport in the world for international passenger traffic and the third busiest airport overall The airport, which also serves as a significant hub for passenger traffic, handled 2.37 million tonnes of cargo in 2014, making it the sixth busiest cargo airport in the world The national carrier of Dubai is Emirates. As of 2018, it ran international flights to more than 150 destinations in more than 70 nations on six continents

Al Maktoum International Airport's expansion (IATA: DWC) was announced in 2004. The airport's initial phase has a runway that can accommodate an A380, 64 remote stands, and a cargo terminal with a yearly capacity.

 dubai airports
Culture
spices of dubai
The traditional Arab culture is essential to UAE culture. Its architecture, music, clothes, cuisine, and way of life all heavily reflect Arab and Islamic culture. Muslims are summoned to prayer five times every day from the minarets of mosques located all around the nation. As a compromise between Friday's sacredness to Muslims and the Western weekend of Saturday and Sunday, the weekend was Friday and Saturday from 2006 until 2022 The previous weekend was from Thursday to Friday. Dubai changed to a four-and-a-half-day work week on January 1, 2022, with the weekend consisting of Friday afternoon, Saturday, and Sunday

Due to the high level of life and many Dubaites' tourism mindsets in the entrepreneurial sector, Dubai's culture has undergone

burj khalifa dubai
Entertainment
Plácido Domingo's performance on August 31, 2016, the first day of Dubai Opera, marked the venue's debut. The location is a 2000-seat performing arts facility with several uses that can hold events including weddings, gala dinners, banquets, and conferences in addition to theatrical performances, concerts, and operas.

London Opera
In Dubai and the UAE, Arabic films are well-liked. The annual Dubai International Film Festival, which acts as a platform for Arab and Middle Eastern filmmaking talent, has been held in the city every year since 2004.[265] Another significant festival that included heavy metal and rock performers was the Dubai Desert Rock Festival, but it is no longer held there.

The significance of Dubai's new gallery scene for contemporary art is one of the city's lesser-known aspects. Aside from the

Education
Dubai's educational system is similar to that of the United Arab Emirates. As of 2009, there were 207 private schools in addition to 79 public schools managed by the Ministry of Education that cater to expatriate Arabs and Emiratis The majority of private schools employ English as their primary language of instruction, but Arabic is the primary language of instruction in public schools with an emphasis on English as a second language. Only the Swiss International Scientific School in Dubai promises to offer bilingual English/French or English/German parallel streams at this time The majority of private schools serve at least one expat community

For kids ages 3 to 19, 36 schools provide an international education utilising one or more of the four International Baccalaureate Programmes Right now, 15 schools

Healthcare
Public and private healthcare are the two distinct sectors in Dubai. Each Emirate has the authority to establish healthcare standards in accordance with its own internal laws, albeit there are rarely significant discrepancies between the standards and rules. In Dubai, public hospitals were first constructed in the late 1950s, and their expansion was accompanied by public health initiatives. Currently, Dubai has 28 hospitals—6 governmental and 22 private—and three additional significant hospitals are expected to be established by 2025

Additionally, there were 1,348 medical clinics overall as of the end of 2012, 97% of which were run privately The introduction of required health insurance for all residents in Dubai in 2015 gradually raised demand for medical services.
